### <a name="humanizers"></a> Humanizers

Humanizers define the rules that are used by CMR to provide humanized values for various facet fields and also support other features like improved relevancy of faceted terms. The rules are defined in JSON. Operators with Admin privilege can update the humanizer instructions through the update humanizer API.

#### <a name="updating-humanizers"></a> Updating Humanizers

Humanizers can be updated with a JSON representation of the humanizer rules to `%CMR-ENDPOINT%/humanizers` along with a valid EDL bearer token or Launchpad token. The response will contain a concept id and revision id identifying the set of humanizer instructions.

```
curl -XPUT -i -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Authorization: Bearer XXXXX" %CMR-ENDPOINT%/humanizers -d \
'[{"type": "trim_whitespace", "field": "platform", "order": -100},
  {"type": "alias", "field": "platform", "source_value": "AM-1", "replacement_value": "Terra", "reportable": true, "order": 0}]'

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 48

{"concept_id":"H1200000000-CMR","revision_id":2}
```

#### <a name="retrieving-humanizers"></a> Retrieving Humanizers

The humanizers can be retrieved by sending a GET request to `%CMR-ENDPOINT%/humanizers`.

```
curl -i %CMR-ENDPOINT%/humanizers?pretty=true

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 224
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8

[ {
  "type" : "trim_whitespace",
  "field" : "platform",
  "order" : -100
}, {
  "type" : "alias",
  "field" : "platform",
  "source_value" : "AM-1",
  "replacement_value" : "Terra",
  "reportable" : true,
  "order" : 0
} ]
```

#### <a name="facets-humanizers-report"></a> Humanizers Report

The humanizers report provides a list of fields that have been humanized in CSV format. The report format is: provider, concept id, product short name, product version, original field value, humanized field value.

    curl "%CMR-ENDPOINT%/humanizers/report"

Note that this report is currently generated every 24 hours with the expectation that this more than satisfies weekly usage needs.

An administrator with system object INGEST\_MANAGEMENT\_ACL update permission can force the report to be regenerated by passing in a query parameter `regenerate=true`.